README.md, before:

# Simple Telegram Log
### A simple Telegram logging helper for PHP

## Usage

```shell
composer require php-core/simple-telegram-log
```

### Examples:

#### Using environment vars (short usage)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logMessage('Test message');
```

#### In code (flexible usage)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false // debug mode
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Logging a PHP "Exception/Throwable"
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logException(new Exception('Test exception'));
```

#### Log request dump
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logRequestDump();
```

#### Debug log
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::debugLogMessage('This message will only be logged if debug mode is on');
```

#### Using custom Bot API

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false, // debug mode
    'https://tg-bot-api.php-core.com' // custom Bot API server url
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Using a cli program for HTTP requests

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false, // debug mode
    TGLog::API_BASE_URL, // custom Bot API server url
    'wget' // (or "curl" for example) the cli program to use for the HTTP request
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Optional Environment Variables for simple use:

| Variable              | Default                  | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| DEBUG                 | false                    | "true" or "false" enables or disables debug mode                                              |
| TG_LOG_BOT_TOKEN      | x                        | The default bot token to use for sending log messages                                         |
| TG_LOG_CHAT_ID        | x                        | The default chat ID to send log messages to                                                   |
| TG_LOG_BOT_SERVER_URL | https://api.telegram.org | The base URL of the Bot API to use                                                            |
| TG_LOG_BOT_HTTP_CMD   | x                        | Optional cli program to use in PHP's "exec" function for HTTP requests (e.g "curl" or "wget") |

Commit message:

implement ability to use nohup in cli program http requests

README.md, after:

# Simple Telegram Log
### A simple Telegram logging helper for PHP

## Usage

```shell
composer require php-core/simple-telegram-log
```

### Examples:

#### Using environment vars (short usage)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logMessage('Test message');
```

#### In code (flexible usage)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__) . '/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false // debug mode
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Logging a PHP "Exception/Throwable"
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logException(new Exception('Test exception'));
```

#### Log request dump
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::logRequestDump();
```

#### Debug log
```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::debugLogMessage('This message will only be logged if debug mode is on');
```

#### Using custom Bot API

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false, // debug mode
    'https://tg-bot-api.php-core.com' // custom Bot API server url
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Using a cli program for HTTP requests (requires ability to run PHP's "exec" function and a cli program like "wget" installed)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false, // debug mode
    TGLog::API_BASE_URL, // custom Bot API server url
    'wget' // (or "curl") the cli program to use for the HTTP request
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Using a cli program with nohup for HTTP requests (requires ability to run PHP's "exec" function and "nohup" as well as a cli program like "wget" installed)

```php
use PHPCore\SimpleTelegramLog\TGLog;

require_once dirname(__DIR__).'/vendor/autoload.php';

TGLog::init(
    '123456:124334534534', // tg bot token
    -14943993494, // tg chat id
    false, // debug mode
    TGLog::API_BASE_URL, // custom Bot API server url
    'exec nohup setsid wget' // (or "curl") the cli program to use for the HTTP request
)->sendMessage('Test message');
```

#### Optional Environment Variables for simple use:

| Variable              | Default                  | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| DEBUG                 | false                    | "true" or "false" enables or disables debug mode                                              |
| TG_LOG_BOT_TOKEN      | x                        | The default bot token to use for sending log messages                                         |
| TG_LOG_CHAT_ID        | x                        | The default chat ID to send log messages to                                                   |
| TG_LOG_BOT_SERVER_URL | https://api.telegram.org | The base URL of the Bot API to use                                                            |
| TG_LOG_BOT_HTTP_CMD   | x                        | Optional cli program to use in PHP's "exec" function for HTTP requests (e.g "curl" or "wget") |
